Physical Mechahand Model
------------------------

1. No files for first iteration of mechahand, see [blog post](http://calin.mocanu.info/2019/06/11/mechahand-assemble.html) for pictures.
2. Mechahand II, the smallest hand version, failed due to pulley system cables passing through sharp corners. Can't have the cables passing through any corner as tensioning that wire causes large friction increase and a lot of plastic deformation of the nylon wire.
3. Mechahand III, the hand with the motors directly in the palm, failed because it's way too big and flimsy. Can't put motors on the fingers because they end up being too heavy and too big. Not way to cramp them tighter either. The 3rd version has a very modular design with each finger segment and wrist joint taken from 2 joint modules. Motorzied bigjoint is a sturdy and higher reduction joint for the wrist assembly. Motorized minijoint are perpendicularly geared joints as small as I can make with 1 motor and 1 potentiometer. Modularizing the hand was a good idea, and bigjoint is used in later versions.
4. Mechahand IV, first fully functional version, blog post pending. Uses the motorized bigjoint module for the wrist. There are direct drive joints with in-situ motors for the thumb and pinky opposable finger grasp. The rest of the fingers are controller by 1-sided pulley system; with the other side being a passive spring. With 2-sided pulleys on the old versions, there isn't enough tension on the string to gracefully unwind the side opposite the movement direction. We end up with loose wire coming out of the motor system and tangling up. There's no way to fix it without unreasonable tension on both sides. I therefore choose a single side pulley with a passive spring which keeps the system always in tension. We only need to be careful not to unwind when there's an external blocker.
5. Mechahand V, with neat finger shrouds! Fingers actuated again from 2 sides using the double pulley. Finger covers can hide the wiring to make it prettier. Using silicon wires leading to the motor system with a plastic soldering helper. Much neater to solder together, though putting the wires in place is difficult. Ok design on first sight, but multiple problems make it unusable. The little tubes are to stiff for the sideways finger wiggle. The printer springs are much too strong and have very little give. Difficult assembly requires a lot of force and moving about to get it to clamp down. When the clamp releases the spring fully extend and because the PTFE compression is too much. Overall too much friction to move the fingers when fully tensioned, and too little give in the tensioning system. Shrouds cover the wires though, will keep those. But thicker and mounted with screws so they can be used effectively.
6. Mechahand VI. First build and maybe usable hand! replaced the 6 to 1 buncher with 3 tube pairs that bunch into a single thick-ish tube leading to each joint. Also using much smaller springs for tension, this time acting directly on the tubes making a sort of piston. Neat, and mostly keeps the lines tensioned, but sometimes the spring goes in the tube, also small springs make for little give. Also have nicer tying mechanism on the nylon wire using a buckle of sorts. Pressure tip simplified for assembly by needing gauges on a single side that bends into an S shape. Sturdier finger covers too. Using the same soldering helper as V, but with thinner silicon wires. Unfortunately the wrist joint is propped stuck because of the large number of stiff PTFE tubes going to the fingers. The middle finger is also hard to bend because of the tube going to the tip joint. It's also hard to get consistent tension on the springs. If tensioned too hard it becomes stuck. Also because of the PTFE stiffness the 2 sides of a joint don't tension independently, which is the primary reason for the tensioning system, to prevent an unwind on the side that's relaxing.
7. Mechahand VII. Direct nylon pathing through center of joints. This design ditches the PTFE guides in favour of the direct pathing. Though still using the thick PTFE tube as a make shift piston for the new tensioning system. Instead of pushing 2 guide tubes apart, we now pull 2 end of the wire together. The wires slide past eachother to compress on a spring, guided by the thick PTFE tube and some plastic bits. Works with the long and easy to compress springs. When the plastic bits touch we also stop compressing the spring and can pass the full motor tension. Large springs means a large give, but hopefully not too much tension on the relaxing side. Can't test this hand until fully designed due to the tension being held by the hand structure. The hand structure is made much more rigid using proper bearings and thick plastic construction. Wrist pivots on bearings on both sides for structural integrity. Wrist roll now has the position potentiometer on a gear, and a large channel through the middle for the tendon wires. Removing battery from hand case, assuming external power source. Also to conserve space as new motor arrangement needs a lot of middle space for the tensioners. However no space on the side needed for the tensioning guides. Dropping the soldering helper in favour of dupont connectors for the fingers, and direct soldering for the motors. The extra connectors on the finger should help with assembly, as the finger cables can be separated from the motor.  Thicker plastic parts make for sturdier looking aesthetics, also the base cover. The middle covers, are also above some nuts and bolts and as packed as they can be, allowing for movement. Fingers crossed!
8. Mechahand VIII. Upgrade of mk 7 to fix weak wrist printing direction and thumb/pivot placement. Modified pivot worm joints to have a hole in the middle, like the wrist, to allow placing in line with the ring and index fingers. Much stronger placement, and keeps the distance between thumb/pinky and the wrist center constant; this is important to keep the tendons constant length. The ring finger is now fixed on the palm, as pivoting it together with pinky makes the leverage too large, and placement inconvenient. New placement also fixes the clearance issue with mk7. First hand version that really works!
9. Mechahand mk 9. Iterating on mk 8. Fingers now smaller and with integrated cover for the middle. The distance between the yaw and pitch joints halved to 15mm, making the joint closer to a ball joint. Unfortunately a true ball joint would require too much vertical thickness. Exploring design with magnetic sensors, but skipping for now. Thumb and pivot worm joints now smaller with lower gear ratio and bigger bearings. The 9mm bearings seemed like the weak points in previous design, hopefully now it's fixed. With smaller fingers, they are easier to place in the wrist and allows for nicer, smaller construction. Finger wires now go on the top, clearing the grasp of wiring. Wiring might look ugly as there's no hole to put them through, but placed mounting holes for an eventual cover. Finally tensioning using extension springs with a piece of nylon tied between the ends to cap the extended length. To pre-tension the tendons, we use the finger side loop of the spring as the hitch and the small buckle for simplified knotting; as an alternative to the hitch knot which doesn't hold on the thick nylon.
10. Mechahand mk 10. Pretty, buildable, and structurally sound mechahand! PTFE tubes brought back, but a short length passing through the wrist center needing minimal bending during wrist and thumb pivoting. Point of the tubes is to allow tendon tying from the outside, easing the build. Wrist hole substantially enlarged, allowing all electric cables and the tendon guides through. Designed ornate cover to hide wires. Designed tight-fitting skin out of TPU for the tip and mid finger, protects potentiometer cable connections, make hand grippier, neater! Bottom of fingers covered with a pressure sensor. Fingers shortened by 1cm, to near anatomical length. Moved case on top of wrist motor, compacting it by a bit. Should be a very presentable hand! (Spoilers... it was not presentable)
11. Mechand mk 11. New concept to integrate sensors in the palm and fingers. Designed a flexible circuit that folds into the hand shape and has integrated magnetic rotation potentiometers on the joints and pressure sensors on the fingertips. Now this is a presentable hand! The fingers are assembled from two parts that mesh with eachother and are held together by the flexible skin. The circuit is simply placed inside channels in the fingers and held in place by little clips. The wrist area now uses individual PTFE tubes for each actuated joint and there are indents designed into the palm and motor box to place the guide tubes. Still a lot of pain to assemble, the guide tubes rub on eachother as the wrist bends and might tangle the cable connection. The wrist stiffens up with the guide tubes in place and the tendons tensioned up... Unfortunate, but the flexible circuit with integrated sensors is a great idea!
12. Mechahand mk 12. Slight improvements to finger design to ease up assembly and strengthen weak points. Switching to coreless motors for quieter operation (true!). Now designing channels into the plastic of the motor box to guide the tendons directly but smoothly to each corresponding motor. Replaced the guide tube idea with directly connecting the tendons from motor box to the palm, however they pass through PTFE rings in the center of the wrist and at the beggining of the motor box to minimize friction and minimize the change in tendon length as the wrist bends. Unfortunately tensioning up the finger tendons now forcefully pulls the wrist to one side, and the motors are unable to overcome. The wrist was redesigned with bevel gears (partially filled with gear teeth) for easier assembly than the purely wire driven differential. Also using bevel gears for the finger pivot action, again for ease of assembly. Electric wire now shielded by a flexible plastic channel when passing through the wrist channel.
13. Mechahand mk 13. Changing from double sided tendons for the finger joints to single side tendon for flexion and spring for finger extension. Switching the knuckle actuation from actuating the pitch and yaw separately to actuating both diagonally (similar to the differential). Big improvement in precision after this change, although more complex driving mechanism to avoid unspooling! More improvement to finger design, thickenned up fingers for strength and created stubbier finger models for the thumb and pinkie. Changed palm design to also use springs for the pivot actions and enlarged the top cover to cover everything nicely. Solved the wrist guide problem by designing a guide channel made of stiff segments with channel holes held together by a flexible snake connecting the motor box and palm. The flexible core forces the guide plates into bending smoothly with the movement of the wrist. This wrist design finally has the full range of movement that it was designed for and is able to move when the fingers move (not locked in place by the tendon tension). Also, since the fingers are driven from a single side, the bias on the wrist from the finger actuation is more predictable. This robot hand works!